DDMark - CRD validation code integration (#362)
DataDog/chaos-controller: ddmark/README.md

# DDMARK

## What is it ?
DDmark is a validation module embedded in the chaos-controller, used to apply validation rules to the Kubernetes Custom Resource Definition of the chaos-controller, Disruptions. 
It allows for defining rules that put constraints on fields, which will be applied when they're unmarshalled from a file, or read.

## Why does it exist ?

> DDMark emerged as an idea when using kubebuilder, which uses markers to put constraints on CRD (Custom Resource Defintion) fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DDMark emerged as an idea when using kubebuilder, which uses markers to put constraints on CRD (Custom Resource Definition) fields.
```

Those constraints could later only be applied when parsed by the kubernetes api, which isn't very practical for other uses.
It was decided to use the same [markers](https://pkg.go.dev/sigs.k8s.io/controller-tools/pkg/markers) in a customised way to be more flexible and usable.

DDMarkers can be validated through code, which allows us to validate through a CLI and any valid go runner - no need for kubernetes anymore. 
It also allows us to define custom rules to apply to our structures, and focus the code validation within the chaos-controller to environment-specific validation (*does this service exist in this cluster ? Is my cluster in a supported version ?*) and not structural config validation (*is this field under 100 like we need it to be* ?), which would end up being very annoying, cluttered and messy code.

## How to use DDMark ?

* Define new rules/read the existing rules within the ddmark/validation/validation.go file

> * Add the desired rules to the appropriate struct fields in the package you wish to add validation to (care for type checking - eg. Maximum rule can only be applied to int/uint fields)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Add the desired rules to the appropriate struct fields in the package you wish to add validation to (care for type checking - e.g. Maximum rule can only be applied to int/uint fields)
```

* Add the desired rules to the appropriate struct fields in the package you wish to add validation to (care for type checking - eg. Maximum rule can only be applied to `int/uint` fields)
* Make sure to use the format `// +ddmark:validation:<rulename>=<value>`
* Call the `ValidateStruct` function, with the unmarshalled struct, the file path, and the full path of the packages containing the included structs definition (with markers embedded). Check `cli/chaosli/cmd/validate.go` for a functioning example.

## Markers Documentation

- Enum:
  - `// +ddmark:validation:Enum={<any>,<any>,...}`
  - Applies to: `<any>` field
  - Asserts field value is one of the given values of the Enum list
- ExclusiveFields:
  - `// +ddmark:validation:ExclusiveFields={<fieldName1>,<fieldName2>,...}`
  - Applies to: `<struct>` type
  - Asserts only one of the given fieldnames isn’t `nil`
- Maximum:
  - `// +ddmark:validation:Maximum=<int/uint>`
  - Applies to: `int/uint` field
  - Asserts a value is equal or inferior to a given int
- Minimum:
  - `// +ddmark:validation:Minimum=<int/uint>`
  - Applies to: `int/uint` field
  - Asserts a value is equal or superior to the given int
- Required:

>   - `// +ddmark:validation:Required=<bool>`

Reviewer: Should this be `<bool>`?
